>> Jem Young: I wanna talk about server.
What does a server do?
But give you a hint.
It's in the name.
Not Sam.
Anybody else?
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jem Young: Yes, that's exactly right.
It serves content.
That is what a server does.
Yes, I would answer it
a little bit differently.
I'd say it responds to requests.
Yes, that's also what a server does.
Though you can argue the definition
of responses is a form of content.
But yours is probably a bit more
encompassing, which is good, but
it serves files.
Like that's usually what
you want a server to do.
It serves something back.
If a server just let's say I pinged it and
didn't do anything.
What's the point of the server?
They're like, for all intents and
purposes, it doesn't exist to my needs.
But a server is also just a really,
really powerful computer, or
any computer at all can be a server.
Your laptop can be a server.
In fact, if you do any sort of
local development, it is a server.
So when we think servers,
we often think giant server racks and
data farms and all these things.
But my phone can be a server,
anything can be a server,
as long as it responds to a request and
serving content, it's a server.
So let's make a server,
because a server is what we're
gonna be doing today primarily.
Yeah, let's make a server.
So back to vim.
So make sure you're in,
this is some temporary folder
we have write permissions.
If you can write last item,
switch folders, or create a new one.
So just say vi simpleServer.js or
whatever you want to call it.
>> Jem Young: And
we're gonna write a bare bones HP server.
I'm assuming you have Node installed,
if not MPM install dash.
Actually just install Node, but
99% of people have Node installed
in their computer already.
You're in Frontend Masters.
If not just google how to install Node and
do that real quick.
Or if using Python we can
do it in Python as well.
Python is actually even
easier to start a server.
It's like python dash m to start a server.
But go ahead and fire that up.
And I'm going to do the same thing.